Okay, I'm going to call to order the
town of Andover special meeting for
Thursday, June 12th at uh 7:02.
Um the first order of business is the
pledge of allegiance. I pledge
allegiance to the United States of
America and to the republic for which it
stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice
for all.
Okay. Um,
one second.
Okay. We'll go through uh public speak.
Um, Louise Goodwin.
I'm good. Thank Thank you, Jeff. Valerie
Bruno.
Nothing at this time. Thank you. Joanne
Heert.
Well, clearly I'm here. I'm going to
listen, of course, before I say too much
because I want to see I guess I want to
know what the ultimate purpose and the
end result wanted comes out of this.
I've read everything. I understand we
all want to do things, you know, as a
member of the board of finance, we want
to do things in the correct way and in
the manner that they're supposed to. I
guess I'm a little surprised because I
think a lot of this was very transparent
and openly said in meetings that I've
attended where there's been slides
talking about things. So, I don't want
to speak too much ahead of time. I
thought it had been talked about when
there was votes taken by town members.
Um, it was ultimately, you know,
whatever. I'll sit back and listen to
the experts. But I mean, I thought the
goal of the town who all of the boards
were involved in talking about it was
the purpose to create the AES account
and then of course fund it, you know,
little by little. And to me, the perfect
way instead of a spending spree or
things going to staples and paper clips
or things, you know, that are needed,
why not have this money go back into the
board
into the AES fund? So, I want to listen.
I want to do things the right way, but
it was pretty transparent and spoken
about in multiple meetings across the
year.
Kimberly Persong.
I'm gonna listen for now. Thank you,
Jeff. Okay. Um, so that was uh item two
of public speak. And now we're on to
item three, discussion and action on the
draft audit report for the period ended
June 30th, 2024 regarding the transfer
of unexpended board of education
appropriations to the AES capital fund.
So just so everybody understands why I
really am doing this is so that we start
to do things correctly.
So we have not as a community been doing
everything in the most appropriate
manner manner to um effectively manage
the town's resources. And um I'll sit
there and I'll tell you I'll tell you
why this has to get voted on is because
when you go through the charter as I
know Carol has and Carol you can speak
to your sections that we'll discuss. Um
there's certain roles that each group
has
and I will try to explain them from a
very common sense standpoint. The board
of selectmen has to manage the uh the
town and evaluate all the aspects of the
town. We have to take into account the
the school. We have to take into account
the fire department. We have to take
account the library. We have to take
into account all of the organizations
within this within this town. Even
though it's a small town, everybody
needs to sit there and and be heard. And
we as a group, as the board of
selectmen, we have to balance all of
those groups and do what is right for
all of the groups. And what occurred
with related to this while I understand
why we're doing it, I do not done
correctly because what occurred was
money went the school and and God bless
the school. Joanne said it, the school
sat there and didn't go out and
overspend their money. They were they
they had an underbudgeted amount and
that money would come back to the town.
Technically, what it should do is come
back to the town, go into the general
fund, and then from the general fund, we
should have made a recommendation to
move $350,000 into the AES fund to pay
for the the bathroom work. I totally get
that. I'm not sure everybody in the town
really got it. And I'm not sure that
everyone in the town,
you know, had their say because I hear a
lot that um, you know, the board of
selectmen is is trying to overstep their
authority. Well, in this case, we're not
overstepping our authority. Our
authority is to present to the board of
educa, the board of finance, a budget,
and including the capital funds for the
town, all of the assets of the
community. The school building is a town
asset. The town hall is a town asset.
The community center is a town asset.
The fire department is a town asset. The
library is a town asset. The the the old
library is a town asset. And even the
asset we're tearing down, the old
firehouse is a town asset. And we have
to balance all of them. So
what happened was the board of education
members went to the board of finance and
they sat there and said we have an
underbudgeted amount we want to move
into the AES capital fund and everybody
needs to understand the AS capital fund
is a town account not a board of
education account. It is a town account.
Those dollars are capital funds just
like every other capital fund that we
have like the road work capital fund,
the bridge and culvert fund. It's a town
fund that is used for specific purposes
that that we are trying to save and
budget for. So I sit there with
everybody and I just let you know that
even putting that money there, it's
still a town account, just not done
correctly. And I want to make sure that
moving forward we do things in a correct
manner and we get this voted on and
hopefully that you know hopefully it
will pass. I mean it's not not going to
pass and uh we do it correctly. That's
it. That was all I was ever after.
That's all I've been sitting there
dealing with. And in my head, we need to
sit there and outline everybody's
responsibilities because people are
outsizing the role that they have within
the community. And listen, the board of
selectmen isn't the final authority on
anything the town meeting is. Unless
it's written into an ordinance and it's
given granted to the the board of
selectmen by charter, which all of this
is governed by. Um the town meeting is
the ultimate authority because that's
our form of government. So anyway,
that's why I wanted to do this. So now
let's let's go. Carol, I know you have
issues related to the charter. Let's
talk about the sections. We can bring
them up.
Well, the only
sections 806
C
and D.
Okay, let's
So C and D, right? So let's read them.
Right. So these are these are section
806 expenditures and accounting.
Correct. Okay.
C one. When an agency excluding the
board of education shall desire to
transfer funds within its appropriation
from the funds set apart for one purpose
to another, such agency shall file a
request with the town administrator. The
town administrator shall examine the
matter and with the concurrence of the
board of selectmen shall have the power
to approve requests to accumulative
amount of $2,000 for any one department,
office or agency in any fiscal year.
Do you want to keep going through all of
those or is your biggest issue related
to excluding the local board of
education? Excluding the local board of
ed. And then the last sentence of
section two that says the cumulative
total of 10% of the agency's total
budget for the fiscal year. Correct.
Okay.
So let's just get to the to the the
biggest section the biggest part of this
that I will sit there and deal with you
on. It's expenditures and accounting.
It's transferences between expenditure
line items. We are not talking about
making a transfer between an expenditure
line item. We're talking about making a
transfer to a capital fund,
but it says from the funds set apart for
one purpose to another. Correct. Related
to expenditures. Expenditures.
All right. That's that's an accounting
term that you know when you sit there
and you deal with it. Sure. And it it
would be what Eric and the board of
selectmen do. I'll be sure. I'll be
done.
So, okay. Any
other question that I have? When I was
talking with Eric and Dennis and Bill D.
Roger. Um, we did look at another tab in
the budget with Eric where it was
clearly shown that the board of finance
was removing $100,000
that we would have been taxed on for the
upcoming fiscal year and instead
put that $361,000
into the AES
capital fund. Yeah. And it was also
explained in a presentation.
So, it was part of the budget
that we voted on. As far as I can see,
it was it was a presentation to the town
capital budget that sat there and said
so a change funding to AES capital fund
for school infrastructure repairs to be
funded from an from any AES surplus. I
don't know correct from any AES stuff.
Okay. So any any yeah 100 100,000k which
is what the board of selectment was
putting in that fund because before we
knew the surplus right we put that in
there right now funded from as surplus
361 recently added to the A's capital
fund from prior budget surplus. So in
essence the board of of of finance was
informing the community that they made a
change to the last year's budget without
anyone voting on it. They they made a a
global change and and yes, Carol, did
they put it there? And did uh different
people within the the group know that it
was done, but to put it up in a
presentation or to put it on a
blackboard is different from having a
someone vote on that being moved, but
they reduced the hund,000 that we were
going to be taxed on for this upcoming
fiscal year starting July 125. Correct.
Then the only thing that we voted on at
the budget meeting when it was done was
the reduction of the $100,000
because that was the budget the board of
selectment presented to the board of
finance and then the board of finance
sat there and and reduced the budget
recommendation that we made by $100,000.
Why? because at their meeting they voted
to sit there and move money and and and
listen this goes into my whole issue
like
that transaction was done simply by the
board of finance without understanding
or even even sitting there and
evaluating the overall total needs of
the community and and I sit there and
this moves forward. This is a something
something for me moving forward because
to me this is common sense. This is
there are certain things that have to be
done and have to be done properly. We
all have to work together. There is no
doubt about it that we have to work
together better, but we also have to
understand what our roles are and not
our roles. So in this case, Carol, I'll
disagree with you in that putting it up
in a presentation and putting it there
and saying a change to the AS capital
fund for the school was done. Nobody in
the town meeting voted on that. They
knew that the board of education did it.
They didn't vote on it. It was also in a
tab that Eric had on his desktop
computer showing me the transfers into
the different funds. So the Okay, so
Eric Eric is on the phone. I just have
to ask him. Eric, was that related to um
the prior year the way that the prior
year financial statements were were
done? How was that done? What what is
Carol referring to?
So
when the board of selectmen was going
through their budget process, one of the
documents that I gave you was a list of
all the capital funds that the town had,
what the sources of revenue for them,
and what the expected expenses of in
that year. Um after the board of finance
made the decision to transfer in the
money uh from the board of education and
at the same time made a motion to reduce
the amount being funded into that
capital fund from the budget process by
$100,000.
I updated that spreadsheet.
um the board of finance did not share
that spreadsheet
um you know or most of the capital
summary that they have with the public
at the budget meeting. Um they just
didn't
but yes the board of finance certainly
had had a document listing all the
funding for all the capital funds what
amounts were in each fund and what the
funding sources were. That's what
Carol's referring to. And there are
quite a few other funds on that uh tab
of the spreadsheet listed um
that I don't know if they're on what we
voted on. That's all I'm saying. We
never Yeah, but we never vote on any of
those, Carol. Those are all balance
sheet accounts for the town. So the
funds end up being a balance sheet item
that sits there and says we have this
much in cash in the general fund and
then the the general fund is broken down
to these funds and some of these funds
actually have their own bank account. It
it's but it's a balance sheet item. You
wouldn't vote on that. Uh but if funds
are being added to it, it should be
shown. the people should be able to see
what they're being taxed on and the
money that's being added in there and
I understand what you're saying and we
do have to do things correctly,
but this is done. Are we going to go
back and look at everything that was
incorrectly done?
You know, things that were signed off,
expenditures that were made.
Well, actually, I mean, this is this is
we should be should be doing this. So,
you're saying that we should go in and
start reviewing everything and anything
that wasn't it's not our job to review
that. That's what the board of board of
finance should be doing. Carol, they
should have done all this. Who came up
with this and why did this why is this
coming up something with a fiscal year
ending june 30 of 2024? The audit for
that year was just handed out as a draft
audit. Now, somebody told me the final
audit is there. I don't know. I haven't
seen that yet. But
I just think it's something board of
finance did it.
Whether it's correct or not is still
gray to me. Um
that's the point. And and if they would
have done it, if it was for fiscal year
ending June 30, 2025 and they came right
now and asked for that money to be
transferred, they would be well within
their right doing that. If the board of
finance approves it and it goes to a
town budget meeting,
correct? And what what should have
happened, listen Carol, what should have
happened is that number should have been
on this year's budget and there should
have been money moved from the general
fund to cover those dollars. That's
exactly how it should have happened.
Not not a vote, sorry, Ann. Not a vote
of 6 to affect the prior fiscal year
budget because no one you can't tell me
that anyone in at the town meeting voted
on that.
Go ahead, Ann.
Well,
we didn't have a lot of votes at the
town meeting, but we had the referendum
and the town approved the budget as it
is for next year for 25 to 26.
Are you saying you want to take this
money out of the 20 was it 23 24 budget
year? This was already done and you're
saying you want to change that or are
you just saying you want to change it
for the future? No, I want to approve it
so that in essence it was done correctly
because right now in my mind that vote
is is is
not appropriate. It doesn't it's it
wasn't the board of finance did not have
the authority to sit there and move
those funds to a capital fund.
So, so in essence, what happened was the
board of education went to the board of
finance said, "We're we have an
underbudgeted amount. We'd like it moved
to the AAS capital fund." The board of
finance took a vote. Only the board of
fun, right? Took a vote and sat there
and said, "Okay, we're going to move all
this money into the AS capital fund for
use for sole use on the building of this
on the school building." Right?
understanding and that the asset is a
town asset. That bathroom needs to be
fixed. I'm okay with this. Just not done
right.
So, well, it's been done. It's done been
audited.
We can't change the past. There's a lot
of things you might say haven't been
right. It's true. But you're not going
to be changing those. The only thing we
can do is for the future now.
Uh the one thing that we can do is we
can make sure that our audit is correct
because you know being a being a again
the auditor was going with information
that was presented to him by by the town
administrator and the board of finance
and he believes they acted under the
proper proper authority to do it. I'm in
my mind telling you that that's
incorrect.
Okay. So now what happens if we sit
there and we we we don't go to town
meeting, we don't approve it, we go to
the auditor, right? What's the auditor
going to potentially do? He's going to
make a correction to his audit
and we're going to have a finding in the
audit like we're going to have a change,
Carol. It's going to move the money from
the AAS capital fund to the general
fund.
I don't think so.
that you can you can believe that and
and it's okay. That's why we're here.
That's why we're So, you're telling us
that the auditor Yeah. If he looks and
deems that this was incorrectly done,
Yeah. he's just going to take that money
and transfer it back into the general
fund and an auditor has the authority to
do that. He has to determine whether
those those those entries are done
correctly.
Okay.
Valerie, Valerie, hold on for one
second, will you? I get your hands up. I
don't like hands up in meetings. I mean,
so
Okay. So,
the auditor can transfer money from No,
the auditor The auditor doesn't transfer
anything. The auditor takes transactions
and evaluates the transactions whether
they're done correctly or not done
correctly. Okay. And then that would be
a finding in our audit. He would go back
to the treasurer and say make the entry
correctly.
Let's sit there and say we went and we
said that is not done that is that is
not done with the appropriate authority
right not done with the appropriate
authority and you go and you go through
it I mean things have to be done with
the appropriate authority
there's nothing anyone wants to sit
there and troll me I I said it at the
board at the town meeting that I was at.
I'm like, who voted on this?
Because no one voted on it. The town
meeting didn't vote on it. It didn't go
from the board of selectment to the
board of finance to get voted on. And
that's okay. I I just ask who voted on
it because the board of selectment is
not the final end all beall on a on
something like this. Had to be in front
of the town meeting and get voted on.
So, Valerie, go ahead because I know you
want to speak on behalf of the board of
education. No, actually, it's not on
behalf of the board of education. I just
feel right now like that you're you're
offering some misinformation here to the
general public respectfully, Mr.
Maguire. We give the same auditor as
you. They audit the board of education
and the town every single year. So I
feel I do feel like the information that
you are currently giving to the public
is this auditor didn't know. this
auditor doesn't know and oops there's a
mistake and this auditor just has
misinformation and respectfully and I'm
not trying to be confrontational but we
have a good auditor who has done right
by this town on my side and your side
and I feel like you're trying to make
the general public feel that this audit
was done wrong and it was not the
auditor has all excuse me the auditor
has all of the information every one of
the accounts every transaction and it
was done and it was it went through and
our audit does not have a finding for
something being wrong for that. So
respectfully I understand that you don't
like the way it was done between the
board of education and again at the
start of this Mr. Magguire, you said the
board of selectment oversees the fire
department, the library, the education.
They do not oversee. We have a board of
education.
And if you look at all of the state
statutes, the board of education
oversees education. And so I You own the
building, Valerie?
Because I Let's go. Do you own the
building? Does the board of education
own the building?
The board of education oversees that
building by state statute. Do you own
the building? Neither do you. The town
of Andover. The town of Andover
selectmen does not over does not own the
building. The town of Andover does and
there is a board of education. So
respectfully, I just wanted to intervene
to say we all have the same auditor. The
auditor knows year after year what goes
on. He does. He does. Okay. Thank you.
Thank you, Valerie. So, anyway, ladies
and gentlemen, the auditor doesn't read
the charter every single activity that
goes on. And so, Carol, like you, you're
you're a charter person. Just saying. If
you go back to the auditor and you sit
there and say by charter this was not
done correctly, then the auditor has to
make a decision as to what he's going to
do. My recommendation is to go to a town
meeting and get it approved and move on.
That's it. To get approved
to get the transfer properly approved.
I am not sitting there saying take the
money away. Please understand that. I am
saying do it correctly and you know uh
just so happens just so happens just so
happens according to the superintendent
I happen to be
a CPA I happen to sit there and have
done audits before and do those types of
things and I'm telling you in a in an
audit like this you either follow the
charter and I know that our auditor is a
very good auditor but he didn't read our
charter he was just told that this is
what the board of finance wanted to do
with their number. Okay, I'm coming back
and I'm telling you the board of finance
didn't have the authority to do it.
You can sit there and say let's not have
a meeting and we'll move forward. Right?
I will tell you moving forward we are
going to change everybody everybody's
got to get together and say these are
the rules. This is how it is. You know
the superintendent likes to sit there
and say that they have total authority
that building. Do you know that that
building is a town building? The board
of selectmen is is the the legislative
authority related to the town of
Andover. And guess what? We five members
have a responsibility to that building
just like every other building. Just
like every other road and every other
culvert in this town,
our responsibility
is not internally not internal and not
internal. Not maintenance. Not talking
maintenance. I'm not talking cleaning.
I'm not talking any of that. That's all
board of education
capital improvements and the building in
in total are town assets.
So I listen we don't have to waste any
more time. I've said my piece it's not
done correctly. Everybody we can either
have a town meeting or you guys can vote
no to not have a town meeting. We vote
no to not have a town meeting. In my
mind the town meeting did not vote to
approve that transfer.
So, we good. Jeeoff, I have a couple
questions. Just a couple comments. Sure.
Um, first is the the the name of the
actually the AES fund. It should not be
the AS capital fund. It should be the AS
school fund just like it has the
building fund and we have the firetruck
fund. The word capital should be taken
out of there because if we use this
capital money to fix a bathroom, fixing
a bathroom is an expense. It is not a
capital expenditure.
As a CPA, you know what a capital versus
an expense is. An expense is a repair or
a replacement.
Capital is like putting the solar panels
on. That's adding value to a structure
or a building. If we call this a capital
fund and we want to fix the bathroom,
we're kind of tying our hands here
because we really need to change that
and make it the AES school building
fund.
Number two, I know when we built the
community center, we ended up with all
those two payments of ARPA funds. We did
a similar thing. We put that in the
budget and we put it as a line item and
it was approved at town meeting and the
community center was built. That is very
similar to what we did here because it
was actually a capital improvement to
the town. That is a capital expense. I I
that's that's adding value to this. And
third, I mean, I went through Eric's
slides that were there and we we
followed a similar process when we did
that. And unless the auditor is
screaming and says, you know, you guys
got to fix this.
I mean, I'm kind of t I'm kind of torn
right now like what to do because I
really don't think I I I think everybody
had a chance to look at the I mean, we
voted for it at town meeting whether
we're going to send it to referendum or
not and it was clearly in there that we
were going to take that money and move
it into the AES fund. I mean, I saw it.
I knew we were taking $100,000 out of of
from taxation.
So, so, you know, I'm torn on this
because I I I get what you're saying,
but on the other hand, I feel like, you
know, we followed the same process that
we followed with the community center
funds, and that was a significantly
three times the amount of money that
we're talking here. So, if we're going
to go back and do this, are we going to
go back and fix all these other things
that we've kind of had a little bit of
oversight on? But, because I think we
did the community center right. I
actually think we were correct on the
way we did that. And I mean, look,
you're right. The bathrooms need to be
fixed and it is it's an expense, but I
would like to see the the name of that
fund renamed to AES building fund just
like all our other funds like firetruck.
We don't have a firetruck capital fund.
It's a firetruck fund. Um, that's the
only one that's the only one I know of.
That's the only one I know of now that
has capital in it that I'm aware of. So,
we should probably name it a because
look, that's fixing those bathrooms is
not a capital investment. That's that's
a repair. It's a repair. I would sit
there and go, Jeff, it's the same issue
as the roof. That's a repair. The roof
repair
you have a whole you I have a different
view of capital because look, I've been
doing I've been doing facilities for
20some years and I know a difference
between capital expenditures and expense
and this is an expense. It's not a
capital expenditure.
You're not you're not adding any value
to the building. You're correcting
something that was already there. You're
you're doing a repair.
It's a repair.
Can I just ask a question? Because this
wasn't an audit finding. So, how did
this
come about? Why why are we here talking
about this today? Because I I don't
think it was the board of finance. They
took vote to transfer Yes, it's me. I
told I brought this up because it's the
vote which was taken by the board of
finance and it it's not a it's not a
valid vote as far as I'm concerned
and you think that we have the right to
overturn something that the board of
finance did
if it's incorrect. Yeah.
I mean, and I'm not even telling you,
Carol, that it's the board of select
men's vote. It's not the board of
selectman's vote. I understand that, but
we would have to be overturning their
vote and then forcing it to go. Well, we
would be overturning the town, Carol.
We'd be overturning the town meeting
because we took this to the town
meeting, right? We did take the town
meeting. And to quote, Jeff, it was the
the town meeting is the governing body.
If you guys believe that putting this up
on a on a on a PowerPoint line and
sitting there saying that this is what
occurred for the prior fiscal audit is a
town meeting vote, then that is what
your decision is. Yeah, but Jeeoff, what
is the difference between this and what
we did with the community center? What
is the difference? What's the
difference?
I would sit there and go, Jeff, when we
sat there and did that, right, I would
sit there and I I I can't tell you
because I didn't go backwards to sit
there and look at it. I would ask you,
was it only done as a presentation point
that we talked about at the town? Yes.
Yes, it was. I remember
asked me Yes. why it wasn't brought to
town meeting and I said, "Well, the
board of selectment had the purview." We
did at that point had the preview to to
expend that money and we brought that to
the town meeting and we said we wanted
to use those funds for the community
center and we did and the town at that
time could have ejected. Did we vote on
that at all? No, we we as a board No.
No. I know we as a board did, but I'm
asking you as did we ever bring it to
the town meeting at all? Yes, we did. It
was on the slideshow. Yes. Yes. But
you're just saying it was on the
slideshow. Yeah. But and the other thing
that that at the town meeting, anybody
can vote to reduce an expense or a line
item and that was a line item that we
had a line item to spend for the
community center. Well, that's what I'm
asking. Was it on a line item for in you
know the way that our our charter word
our charter says it like it changed like
you're supposed to have five line items
you're supposed to have five columns for
each budget. So for the board of
education budget for the board for the
town budget five lines all the budget uh
like the prior year number the over
budget the underbudget all that good
stuff is supposed to be in there. And
what I'm asking you, Jeff, is when we
did that, did we put the ARPA funding in
and then the ARPA funding out on the the
budget document that the town
representatives got the town that was on
the power it was it was on I I I cannot
speak to that, but I can guarantee I can
guarantee that it was on the PowerPoint
presentation. I know it was on the
PowerPoint. I I know that we know that
we did it, but I'm asking is it was it
that would be that would be a question
for Eric. That would be a question for
Eric and the board of finance. We could
have done it incorrectly. I not not
debating that, but I know we did this
one incorrectly. I think
because at the time I don't think we had
received the second payment yet.
No, but we never we never spent I mean
we didn't spend the money until we had
all of the money and but we never took
it to a public we never took it to a
town meeting to town decide what they
wanted to spend the ARB funds on. We
never did because the board of selectmen
was the key player in this and they're
the ones that decided where the money
went. No, but the town's people had no
say. Yeah, that's not right. It wasn't
the town's people say. It was the board
of selections say it wasn't tax dollars
like this. But Scott, if we did that
incorrectly, we did it incorrectly.
Well, yeah, it actually was tax dollars
that was returned to us or borrowed.
Well, it's federal. It didn't come out
of the sky. Yeah. And it should have a
vote tonight or not. I want to get
moving. Sure. I'll make a motion that we
schedule that we set a date for a town
meeting to vote on the transfer of the
funds from the AES over budget to the
AES
building fund. I I'll go with Jeff Jeff
Murray's terminology.
I'll second that, Jeff. Okay. Further
discussion.
Okay. Um, all those in favor? I.
All those opposed?
I. And Jeff, I'm going to abstain
because I don't see that there's any
evidence either way to make a decision
on this. Okay. That's all right. I my my
goal is to sit there and and move
forward and do things correctly. I just
don't think we did it correctly. So, all
right. Uh, we're now past our item. So,
we're moving on to public speak. I do
not know the item for that. Anybody want
to help me on the agenda? Jeff, I have a
question about this. How's this going to
be done next year?
Oh, listen. I had already talked to Mark
Brinker that we need How's this going to
be done next year? Jeff Murray, what
what's your opinion on what do we do
next year? Yeah. Well, I think we need
to figure out, you know, we need to we
need to make these funds that they're
addressed correctly and for the What are
you going to do with the under
expenditures?
We're going to we're going to actually
put them in the budget as line. I would
make sure that they're in their budget
line items and make sure that if there
if there's an issue like Jeff's saying
that the town's people aren't clear with
the funds, then we put it in the we put
it in the the budget and we tell people
that look, we're getting these school
funds returned, but we're moving it to
this fund because there's needed
improvements that need to happen.
instead of increasing taxes in the
future to make these repairs. We're
going to we're going to use this money
that we have now to make to make to make
these needed expenses. No, it's not
going to be returned to the town. You're
saying again next year? That could be up
to the town to decide. I mean, it's I
mean, this was presented at town
meeting. Somebody could have made a
motion to take that $300 and some
thousand dollars and put it back in the
That was never brought up. Mark Brinker
went over that whole slide. That that's
that's inaccurate because it wasn't in
this year's budget.
That's my point.
You are you we're missing the whole
point of this. It is a priory year
budget transaction done. Nobody but the
board of finance members voted on this.
It was a transfer. It was a budget trans
It was a budget funds transfer. Can't do
it like that. It's not like an
expenditure and an expenditure line.
This is a an Well, yes. Well, that's
what that was my point, Jeeoff. If
you're using this to for expense
repairs, yes, it's a it's a legitimate
transfer. It's not it's it's in it was
moved to a and I'm sorry, Jeeoff, the
terminology will work on what we have to
get to, but it was moved to a capital
fund. It was not as it was not moved. It
was not moved to an expenditure line
item. And Jeff, this goes back into your
skill. And this is where you need to sit
there and come and bring forth the best
thing for the community because listen,
we're going to sit there and and
undertake a a bathroom repair, which I
like I the terminology you want to go.
Where's the building committee on that?
Where's the group of people sitting
there and evaluating how it gets done
and where it gets done and why when it
gets done? You got to help marshall
that. Have a committee that's just
forming now to do that. I hope they
bring in people like Adrian and and Bob
Hamburger and Jeff Murray and people who
understand that type of work and because
I'm a CPA. I'm not that I'm not that
right person. Rick bring in Rick Wilson.
Bring in a lot of people from the
community that have skills and because
that needs to happen just like we did
when we did the roof. We brought in a
building committee and we got it done.
Those are the things that we have to
outline and say this is how we expect
things to happen because it's got to be
the same way the budgets get presented.
We have to do a better job to sit there
and say this is a requirement of how the
budgets get presented and you've got to
follow along this way to sit there and
make sure that everybody in the
community gets all the right
information. So
anyway, um we're moving on to like I
said Jeeoff, I'm not disagreeing with
you. I just don't have enough I don't
have enough information either way to
make a decision. Jeff, you Well, I sit
there. You made a decision, Jeff, just
by doing what you did. And that's okay.
And and listen, I wasn't I I knew that
we would have sit there and be split on
this issue. But it doesn't mean that I
cannot bring it forth to the community
to say we need to do it right because we
did not do this right. And that's okay.
So, public speak, we're going to move on
to uh Luis Goodwin.
Um, I commend you, First Selectman Jeff
Magcguire, for determining the mistake
in the budget process and wanting to
correct it to follow the town charter.
We are lucky to have you,
Joanne Heert.
So I also um am glad that if there was a
mistake made in a process that it was
brought forward in a you know in a forum
where everybody can understand. I do
have several concerns though. Um I want
to understand and I will make myself
educated on that that I thought that the
funds were you know they're like bank
accounts and they accumulate every year.
you know, we are allowed to budget. You
as the board of selectmen budget them to
the extent that you want to every year,
you know, if you're putting the budget
together to send to the board of
finance. So, I guess I'm a little
confused. I totally understand that it
was surplus money from last year fiscal
year 2324 of the 360,000.
It wasn't really I didn't think being
and I I will educate myself being put
back in a budget per se. It was being
put back in a fund that accumulates. So
just like the general fund accumulates
because I'm all for taking surplus funds
and you know uh bringing down the town's
taxation. So I will educate myself
there. What I am very afraid of with
this whole process as someone that goes
to a lot of meetings of all of the
boards and have watched the little baby
steps come where there's been a trust
from the board of ed through everybody
trying to work together who has you know
given a lot of their time and effort and
you know tried to make inroads with
that. I'm afraid this is going to do the
opposite for them because it's yet
another thing where they in good faith
had given back the $100,000
um because they were forthright with
their surplus. I will mark my words
here. I don't think anyone has to worry,
Mr. Person, about a uh and this is just
from watching everybody getting to know
everyone's personalities, being present,
being outspoken. I don't think there's
going to be a surplus ever again because
there's not going to be any trust
anymore. So, I don't think this will be
a problem. We'll be watching budgets
that are put forth be spent. You know,
this is why I was so outspoken about
this agreement and getting the unspent
money back every year to go to AAS for
these things so that they don't spend it
on other things because there was that
trust. So that's what I'm afraid of for
the town right now. But I also want to
do things the right way and here we are.
So thank you Valerie Bruno.
Thank you. Um Jeff Murray, thank you for
pointing out that um when we say
mistake, it was mistakes between the
boards because the million dollars for
the senior center was exactly the same
process that was followed. So, of
course, uh the board of finance would
would never consider a different method
if that was the method that had already
been used and set a precedent. Um in
terms of whether or not the board of
education or myself as the
superintendent would ever just decide
that there would be no surplus, if there
truly was, I I really don't want the
general public to think that there would
be no let's buy extra pencils. That's
silly. We did try in 23 to utilize the
funds that we had available um before
the end of the fiscal year to do the
driveway and that was prior to it then
being unexpended funds and that was shut
down. That was shot down by the town
side and they said nope even though
that's your money and even though it's
prior to the end of the fiscal year and
even though it's an expenditure you
believe that you have the answer is no.
And so that's kind of where the the
difficulty has been since then. So I
assure the general public that the board
of education and myself would never take
unexpended funds and not use them
wisely. So thank you Joanne. I
appreciate that. But if there is
unexpended funds at the end of the year
that they would absolutely if if there
is nothing that needs to be done go back
to uh the town. But I do believe that
the board of finance does have the
authority. So, I think moving forward,
we definitely need to have roles clearly
established for all three boards. Thank
you.
Uh, Kimberly Persan.
Uh, nothing right now. Thank you, Jeff.
Uh, Liz Latch.
Um,
yeah. Uh, I'm not really sure what to
say. I've been on vacation and kind of
came into this meeting late and um I I
appreciate the conversation about um
doing things the right way and hope that
we can fix the process going forward um
so that it's correct. Um, the one thing
I will say though is the money that is,
as far as I'm concerned, the money
that's going into the AEOS
capital/building fund, whatever we're
going to call it, it still remains
within the town's control and it will be
spent
as needed. I believe that to be true and
if I'm not correct in that, I'd like to
know that, too. Um, so it would be
requested by the school as it was
needed. Um,
so if I'm incorrect in that,
um, I I'd like for someone to correct
me, but thank you guys for all you do.
And I know this is a tough one.
Okay.
Is there anything else for anybody that
I miss? Did I miss anybody? Yeah, we can
just Yeah, for Liz Liz's benefit, yes,
they would have to come back and and
request those funds. It would have to be
approved.
Okay. And just as a side thing, because
I was I was
I was texting Eric to make sure I
understood this. Eric actually put um
Jeff the definition of a capital
purchase and capital equipment.
Equipment and projects, as the
definition goes, uh 131. capital
purchases equipment and projects with an
estimated cost of $15,000 or more or
estimated annual maintenance or leasing
costs of $5,000 or more.
That's not inherently true.
Well, I think you you know I think you
you have it in your own. All right. All
right. Well, Jeeoff, let's just let's
just I just I just want to say for for
for just discussion, you have a business
and your septic tank goes in your
business in your doicile or your
business and you have to repair that. Um
it cost you $50,000 to replace your
septic system, you can't claim that on
your taxes as a capital investment. But
if you go out and buy $100,000 delivery
truck, you can depreciate that over 10
years as a depreciable item. Correct.
Yeah. And as a landlord and as a owning
property, when I sit there and I do
something like the roof or, you know,
would I sit there and and and deduct the
entire bathroom? Yeah. But to do it
technically correct and actually have,
you know, the auditor sit there and go
at it, you're probably going to
depreciate the the the
bathroom over, you know, 15 years. Yeah.
Because that's the useful life of the
the bathroom. But so we're in we're in a
municipality,
but it's a little different. But um the
the rules that how we how we purchase
and depreciate things are are pretty
similar. And the real real the real
issue, Jeff, to be really honest, is how
you sit there and evaluate projects
because if you sit there and you you are
doing something, we we have to define
this. This Yeah. Like like the pickle
ball courts in the playground, those are
absolutely capital because you're
improving a property. You're different.
Different. You're different. But no,
that's that's the definition. You're
sitting there. You're sitting there
having a a building that is a town
building and and we're only talking
about the school because all the other
buildings it doesn't it's part of the
you know goes falls under the town
purchasing policy. You are we are going
down a real slippery slope if you sit
there and you don't sit there and
control that building.
Just telling you it's like it's like
thinking about what Valerie sat there
and said in her public speak and I I'll
this is my public speak. She sat there
and said about the parking lot and the
and the money that was going to be spent
on the parking lot. If we spend if we
allow money to be spent like that and
it's not approved in a in in a in a
manner it doesn't go in front of a
building committee, doesn't go in front
of a capital improvement, doesn't get in
front of the town administrator, and we
do these things and they're not done
correctly, then we're going to sit there
and just be throwing money away. It's I
100% agree there. I 100% agree with you
there. what we did 10 years ago with the
prior administrations, we threw money
away. I agree. We paved Cone Road and it
wasn't done correctly. And you can't
have that stuff. That's that's why,
listen, that's why we went to a town
administrator form of government to have
a way, you know, to have that position
in there to have somebody who's caring
about the the whole
whole town and all of the assets of the
town. And and this is not to sit there
and I'm not saying anything about the
board of education. They do a great job
education educating the children. What I
am saying is all of our groups have to
do their jobs in an appropriate way to
make the town run as well as it possibly
can because it's just not it's not
reality. We we we have to do like the
board of finance
has to do its job across everything. It
has to evaluate the expenditures from
the prior year. Has to ask tough
questions. The board of finance's real
goal is to set an upper level of
spending for the community. That
includes the board of education. That
includes the town. That you know, you
can't do anything with RAM. But you have
to be able to fund all of your your
expenses, annual expenses through
taxation or we we pull it out of our our
our fund balances. But everybody's got
to do their job right. So the board of
finance has to do its job right. The
board of selectment has to do its job
right and the board of education has to
do its job right. And we all have to
work together because if we don't work
together, we will continue to go down
these roads and we'll continue to have
bigger arguments. And I'm just telling
you bigger arguments. And and those are
things that I want to avoid at all cost
from I don't have time. I don't have the
energy. I don't want to fight. But I'm
just telling you bigger arguments and we
don't need it. So anyway, uh, anybody
else I missed?
Dennis O'Brien, you didn't say a word.
You want me to say something? I say amen
to everything you just said. I think
that, uh, this town has the capability,
the talent in on its boards and
commissions and staff and whatnot to do
do really great. We are doing very good
but I think we you're right we need to
do things correctly and we need to do
things in cooperation. we need to work
together and you just stated what the
roles are of the of the three three
boards basically the board of selectman
board of finance and certainly the board
of education and I think uh I think we
can do that and I think this uh this
could be a a a good uh jumping off point
to move clo farther into that direction
than we have for a while here in this
town. We had a meeting the other day
with the governor with a board of
selectman
I was really proud to be there. I was
really proud to be there and I know the
governor was very much impressed with
our board of selectmen because he told
my wife that he that he was he had a
great time with us here and and and we
are you know you're a great town. I I
almost wish I lived there but I'm not
about to relocate. But anyway, uh I
thought this was a good meeting. I
thought uh there was u disagreement but
it was civilized and it was um the
discussion was intelligent and I think
we all know that we really need to work
harder to work together in a way that
makes sense and I think you stated that
at the end Jeff and I'm I hope we can do
that in the future. Thank you. Okay,
I'll sit there. I just say one last
thing. Yeah, I agree that things have to
be done correctly and in the future we
need to do that and I think that the
efforts creating that tribe board was
one that was moving towards that and I
understand whatever policy was set up
there but I think that if we have that
tri board we have the understanding
there's a policy there so it's very
clear to everyone on. I I just think I I
think it's hard to step on the toes of
an elected board of finance that made
this decision.
Six votes.
And again, I think it just everything
has to be made more clear. We have to
have that tri board policy
and have an understanding between all
three boards. and we all three have to
start working together.
Yeah. And car and to Carol's Carol's
point, if if the board of finance meets
next time and they decided they did this
incorrectly and they want to have a town
meeting, then that's in their purview.
Correct.
I believe so. But that Dennis again
again they'd have to come they'd have to
come to the board of selectment to
schedule the meeting. That's what I was
trying to do. Whatever that we're we're
done. One last one last thing. Thank you
everybody for for going. Dennis said
something about the board of selectmen,
about the governor being impressed with
the board of selectmen, while the
governor may have been impressed by the
board of selectmen, but be be real
honest, the governor was impressed by
the town administrator.
So, I'm just letting you all know the
town administrator was very articulate
in the the the one of the primary issues
the state has going on is housing and
and and housing starts and low-income
housing. and Eric has done a tremendous
amount of research to assist the the the
planning and zoning board and to deal
with Crag and all of the groups that he
participates in. So, I don't want you to
think that um I was traveling on
business. I wasn't even there. I know
Carol was there. I know Jeff Murray
asked some good questions and I know
Scott was there. But and Jeff was Jeff
Murray. Yeah, Jeff I was the one that
started the conversation. Jeff Murray
started the conversation and Eric filled
in all the gaps and the governor was was
was as Dennis said and I met with Dennis
and I I spoke to his wife and and the
governor was very impressed. So um item
five. Item five. Uh I make a motion to
adjurnn.
Second. All right. All those in favor? I
Okay. Thank you. Good night. Good night.